we begin in the Middle East where two
separate attacks in the space of just 12
hours on the senior leaders of two
iran-backed groups have raised fears of
a wider regional conflict Hamas says its
political leader Ismael Han was killed
during a visit to Teran early
indications suggest that he and his
bodyguard died when a rocket hit the
house where he was staying Hamas has
accused Israel of being responsible and
describe the killing as a grave
escalation well hours earlier Israel
said it had killed a senior Hezbollah
figure in a strike in Beirut the
movement has confirmed that far shukra
one of its top military commanders was
in a building targeted by Israel but
hasn't confirmed his fate Israel said he
was responsible for an attack that
killed 12 young people in the Israeli
occupied Goan Heights well let's start
this hour with this report from
yanel State media in Iran reporting the
assassination in its capital of this top
Hamas
leader a VIP guest isil hania had been
in tan along with the heads of other
Regional armed groups backed by Iran for
the inauguration of the country's new
president but these were to be his last
ever public
appearances in Gaza today news of the
killing worried many Palestinians about
the implications for ending nearly 10
months of war with Israel
if the leaders die the political leaders
where are we going children are dying
the elderly are dying the youth are
dying no one is looking out for
us I hope this will be the last
assassination and God willing the war
will end after this assassination we are
all
tired isma hania was from Gaza but had
recently lived in katar he was seen as
more pragmatic than Hardline Hamas
leaders still in the Palestinian
territory and have been overseeing talks
on a ceasefire and the release of
Israeli hostages now hostage families
fear a
setback I don't know how this news
affect the deal but I wish I really wish
for all of the forces around the world
that We Gather in order to bring our
people back
home I hope our politicians will know to
make these news
into the release of the hostage
just hours before the tan attack Israel
had targeted a senior Hezbollah
commander in the Lebanese Capital beout
it said he was responsible for a deadly
rocket strike in the occupied Golan
Heights last weekend fears were already
running High about the possibility of
retaliation and a wider
War now with a ran announcing three days
of mourning for ish and vowing a harsh
and painful response the Middle East is
even more on edge Yol anell BBC News
Jerusalem well our correspondent barara
plet aser is in Jerusalem now Israel
never comments on these types of
assassinations and I asked her whether
this time was any different not so far
no and again in the most recent briefing
with the prime minister's office the
spokesperson was asked and he said we're
not commenting on this incident um but
we do know that after the October 7th
attacks which were led by Hamas the
Israeli government had said that they
were going to Target all of the Hamas
leadership including the political
leadership so they have kept that uh
threat current uh throughout the past 10
months and there was a strike against a
political leader the deputy political
leader in Beirut in January so I think
the entire region and probably uh most
other people do believe it was the
Israelis who carried it out there was a
brief moment on social media when a a
picture of is is hania was posted by the
government press office here with with a
a graphic saying on his graphic across
his face saying eliminated but that was
taken down very quickly so clearly the
Israelis don't want to um own this uh
publicly uh but as I said they had been
uh they had been saying that they would
be targeting the leadership the question
really is now why they would take this
particular opportunity especially when
Mr hania had been very heavily involved
in ceasefire talks uh that many were
hoping would result in at least a pause
in the conflict in Gaza yes there is
that obvious question about why now now
and the implications on exactly what
you've just mentioned but are there is
anything being reported about how
exactly this attack was
done yeah we don't know exactly how it
was done we do know that it took place
at 2:00 in the morning according to
Iranian media and also that it was very
precise because there were other Hamas
leaders in the building as well as a
leader of Palestinian Islamic Jihad and
they were not hit it was very much aimed
it seems at ishia which means that the
Israelis had very good intelligence
about where he was uh perhaps because he
was attending an event that had been
pre-organized the inauguration of the
Iranian president so maybe they had time
to get Intelligence on it the the
Iranian media initially reported that it
was a missile fired from outside the
country but there have been other
reports saying that it was a rocket
fired from a nearby building which would
implicate uh that that which which
suggest there was some inside help for
the attack but we don't have any
confirmation of exactly how it was
carried out that was Barbara plha let's
speak live now to General Amir aivi
who's the founder of the Israel Defense
and security Forum General welcome here
to the program what is Israel's strategy
here well isra strategy I think from day
one is very very clear there is a clear
goal of War to eradicate Hamas as a
military entity and governmental entity
Hamas has a attacked
unprovoked killed 1200 Israelis raped
women decapitated head of children took
hostages burned people alive and this
organization cannot exist anymore not in
our region at least and step by step the
IDF is destroying Hamas militarily and
also targeting the leadership of Hamas
which are all vicious terrorists do you
think it brings peace any close because
the region has been on the brink for a
very long time taking out anir there on
Iranian territory killing a senior
Hezbollah leader in Beirut There Is that
real risk of this tipping over into a
wider War isn't there we are in war and
in war you need to First Win
decisively and then talk about peace
just as but not a wider war that is what
the Americans have been warning against
various allies have been warning against
a a wider conflict does this EDG us
closer to that wider
conflict well I think that you know and
I've s I've been saying that for the
last two years to the American
Administration and I'm saying it also to
the British uh government if you want to
stabilize the Middle East you need to
show strengths you need to POS a
credible military threat on Iran you
need deterrence we have a globe not just
the region the whole globe is is
completely
destabilized so the Americans the
Americans are wrong when they keep
urging Israel's prime minister not to
escalated is that what you're
saying I'm saying that Israel needs to
win decisively on all fronts the
Americans are wrong if they think that
appeasement works with Iranians with
this terrible regime they are wrong if
they think appeasement works with
theala it's not going to work we need
strengths we need to win decisively and
after we'll win we can talk about
Solutions and peace agreements and so on
peace agreements will come in the Middle
East following a decisive win of Israel
then we might see peace with Saudi
Arabia we might see maybe an alliance a
coalition that's many stages that's many
stages ahead I just want to ask you
about the immediate do you think this
brings any closer the release of those
hostages I think that H only really
military pressure is going to bring the
leadership of Hamas to the point where
they agreed to a deal they have rejected
everything that was offered for months
and months they don't show any
willingness to release hostages and and
the chief of staff of Israel the
Minister of Defense the prime ministers
are all saying the same military
pressure this is what will bring us the
hostages by the way this is what brought
us the hostages at the beginning when we
put a lot of military pressure but
you've also been sending teams to
negotiate and he was the principal
negotiator sorry can you ask again I was
saying you've also Israel been sending
teams to negotiating katar and he was
hamas's principal negotiator who is
there now left to negotiate
with well they see have khed Mas which
they can send they always have somebody
to replace but the leading leadership
will be targeted eventually all of them
also sinir which is hiding somewhere in
the ra region maybe kanun and the IDF is
seeking to find them I think that the
Palestinian Society are fed up of Hamas
I'm hoping that they will understand
they have no future with a terror
organization terrorizing them using them
as human Shields and taking them their
food from all the Foodies that is coming
from Gaza I think it's time to get rid
of this organization J we have to leave
it there but thanks for that perspective
joining us here on BBC News at